Draft for Alpha 4 release (#131)
JabRef/blog.jabref.org: _posts/2025-12-25-JabRef6-0-alpha4.md

---
title: 🎄 JabRef 6.0-alpha.4 Release 🎄
tags: [release]
---

Happy Holidays from the JabRef Team! We have a present for you:
We are happy to announce the release of **JabRef 6.0 Alpha 4**, the next step towards the stable version of JabRef 6.0.
This alpha release brings a number of bug fixes, improvements, and new features, as well as some changes under the hood in the machine room of JabRef, to make future improvements easier and JabRef more versatile.

## Release Highlights

This release focuses on usability improvements for your daily work with JabRef, a couple of new features, and, of course, the usual bug fixes!

> - We added [unpaywall](https://unpaywall.org/) as a new fetcher

Reviewer: Add dots at the end of the points? Or not?

- We added the possibility to drag images into the Markdown comment field

> - We added a "Jump to Field" dialog (Ctrl+J) to quickly search for and navigate to any field across all tabs.

Reviewer 2: `<kbd>` around each key 😅

- We added automatic date-based groups that create year/month/day subgroups from an entry’s date fields.
- We added support for transliteration of fields to English and automatic transliteration of a generated citation key
- We added 15 non-standard BibLaTeX entry types (Audio, Image, Legal, ...) to the group "Non-standard types" group in the New Entry dialog and in the context menu
- We improved the JabRef-CLI only version (JabKit) with a couple of new commands, e.g. conversion from doi to bibtex
- We improved the keyboard shortcut dialog for macOS users

![macosKeyboardShortcuts.png](../img/macosKeyboardShortcuts.png)

For more details, please see the [release notes](https://github.com/JabRef/jabref/releases/tag/v6.0.0-alpha.4).

### Special Thanks

The JabRef Team wishes all of you Happy Holidays and a Happy New Year!

> This time a special thanks to [Terry Bollinger](https://terrybollinger.com/) for the sponsorship of JabRef.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This time a special thanks to [Terry Bollinger](https://terrybollinger.com/) for sponsoring JabRef!
```
